
R News Editors' Meeting
12 August 2008
Present: D. Bates, P. Dalgaard, J. Fox (chair), T. Hothorn, F. Leisch

MINUTES

(1) Transition to the R Project Journal

We decided the following:

(a) The transition from R News to a journal should coincide with the first
issue of 2009, which will probably be published in April.

(b) The journal should be named "The R Project Journal."

(c) The journal should retain the current R News format; Fritz will take
care of adjusting the R News LaTeX style to reflect the new name.

(d) We will continue to manage the journal via an svn archive.

(e) We should distinguish clearly between refereed content, including
columns, and news items; the latter will be collected in a section labelled
"R News."

(f) Each submission, including columns, will be handled by an editor and
will be reviewed by the editor and one external referee or by two external
referees.

(g) We will publish the R Project Journal both as a single PDF file and as
individual PDFs for the separate articles, linked to the contents web page.
Torsten will look into automating this process.

(h) John will investigate getting the journal indexed.

(2) Composition of the editorial board

(a) We decided that the R Project Journal should continue with a rotating
editorship; as before, a newly recruited editor will serve as associate
editor for two years and as editor-in-chief in the third year. The former
editor-in-chief will now remain for a fourth year, however, primarily to
assist and advise the editor-in-chief.

(b) We discussed recruiting a new associate editor for 2009 and agreed that
John would ask Heather Turner of the University of Warwick. (Heather has
agreed to join the editorial board.)

(3) Regularizing the format of submissions

We agreed that submissions should include LateX source, all necessary
additional files (e.g., graphics, BibTeX), and a PDF file, all in R Project
Journal format.

(4) Survey of users

We agreed that a web survey of readers is a good idea in principle, and
asked that Vince, who proposed a survey, suggest what questions are to be
included.



